you
psalm 119 blessed are the undefiled in
the way who walk in the law of the Lord
blessed are those who keep his
testimonies who seek him with the whole
heart they also do no iniquity they walk
in his ways you have commanded us to
keep your precepts diligently oh that my
ways were directed to keep your statutes
then I would not be ashamed when I look
into all your Commandments I will praise
you with uprightness of heart when I
learn your righteous judgments I will
keep your statutes
oh do not forsake me utterly how can a
young man cleanse his way by taking heed
according to your word with my whole
heart
I have sought you oh let me not wander
from your Commandments your word I have
hidden in my heart that I might not sin
against you blessed are you O Lord teach
me your statutes
with my lips I have declared all the
judgments of your mouth
I have rejoiced in the way of your
testimonies as much as in all riches I
will meditate on your precepts and
contemplate your way I will delight
myself in your statutes I will not
forget your word deal bountifully with
your servant that I may live and keep
your word
open my eyes that I may see wonders
things from your wall I am a stranger in
the earth do not hide your Commandments
from me my soul breaks with longing for
your judgments at all times you rebuke
the proud the curse to stray from your
Commandments remove from me reproach and
contempt for I have kept your
testimonies Prince's also sit and speak
against me but your servant meditates on
your statutes your testimonies also are
my delight and my counselors my soul
clings to the dust revive me according
to your word I have declared my ways and
you answered me teach me your statutes
make me understand the way of your
presets so I shall meditate on your
wonderful works my soul melts from
heaviness strengthen me according to
your word remove from me the way of
lying and grant me your law graciously I
have chosen the way of truth
your judgments I have laid before me I
cling to your testimonies Oh Lord do not
put me to shame I will run the course of
your commandments for you shall enlarge
my heart teach me O Lord the way of your
statues and I shall keep it to the end
give me understanding and I shall keep
your law indeed I shall observe it with
my whole heart make me walk in the path
of your commandments for I delight in it
incline my heart to your testimonies and
not to covetousness turn away my eyes
from looking at worthless things and
revive me in your way establish your
word to your servant who is devoted to
fearing you turn away my reproach which
I dread for your judgments are good
behold I long for your precepts revive
me in your righteousness let your
mercies come also to me O Lord your
salvation according to your word so
shall I have answer for him who
approaches me for I trust in your word
and take not the word of truth
utterly out of my mouth for I have hoped
in your ordinances so shall I keep your
law continually for ever and ever
and I will walk at liberty for I seek
your precepts I will speak of your
testimonies also before Kings and will
not be ashamed and I will delight myself
in your Commandments which I love my
hands also I will lift up to your
commandments which I love and I will
meditate on your statutes remember the
word to your servant upon which you have
caused me to hope
this is my comfort in my affliction for
your word has given me life the proud
have me in great derision yet I do not
turn aside from your law i remembered
your judgments of old Oh Lord and have
comforted myself indignation has taken
hold of me because of the wicked who
forsake your law your statutes have been
my songs in the house of my pilgrimage I
remember your name in the night Oh Lord
and I keep your law this has become mine
because I kept your precepts you are my
portion O Lord I have said that I would
keep your words I entreated your favour
with my whole heart be merciful to me
according to your word I thought about
my ways and turned my feet to your
testimonies I made haste and to not
delay to keep your Commandments the
chords of the wicked have bound me but I
have not forgotten your law at midnight
I will rise to give thanks to you
because of your righteous judgments I am
a companion of all who fear you and
those who keep your precepts the earth O
Lord is full of your mercy teach me your
statutes you have dealt well with your
servant O Lord according to your word
teach me good judgment and knowledge for
I believe your Commandments before I was
afflicted I went astray but now I keep
your word
you are good and do good teach me your
statutes the proud have forged a lie
against me but I will keep your precepts
with my whole heart their heart is as
fat as grease but I delight in your law
it is good for me that I have been
afflicted that I may learn your statutes
the law of your mouth is better to me
than thousands of coins of gold and
silver your hands have made me and
fashioned me give me understanding that
I may learn your Commandments those who
fear you will be glad when they see me
because I have hoped in your word
I know O Lord that your judgments are
right and that in faithfulness you have
afflicted me let I pray your merciful
kindness be for my comfort
according to your word to your servant
but your tender mercies come to me that
I may live for your law is my delight
let the proud be ashamed for they
treated me wrongfully with falsehood
but I will meditate on your precepts let
those who fear you turn to me those who
know your testimonies let my heart be
blameless regarding your statutes that I
may not be ashamed my soul faints for
your salvation but I hope in your word
my eyes fail from searching your word
saying when will you comfort me for I
have become like a wineskin in smoke yet
I do not forget your statutes how many
are the days of your servant
when will you execute judgment on those
who persecute me the proud have dug pits
for me which is not according to your
law all your Commandments are faithful
they persecute me wrongfully help me
they almost made an end of me on earth
but I did not forsake your precepts
revive me according to your
loving-kindness so that I may keep the
testimony of your mouth forever O Lord
your word is settled in heaven your
faithfulness endures to all generations
you established the earth and it abides
they continued this day according to
your ordinances for all or your servants
unless your law had been my delight I
would then have perished in my
affliction I will never forget your
precepts for by them you have given me
life I am yours save me
for I have sought your precepts the
wicked wait for me to destroy me but I
will consider your testimonies I have
seen the consummation of all perfection
but your commandment is exceedingly
broad oh how I love your law it is my
meditation all the day you through your
Commandments make me wiser than my
enemies for they are ever with me I have
more understanding than all my teachers
for your testimonies are my meditation I
understand more than the ancients
because I keep your precepts I have
restrained my feet from every evil way
that I may keep your word I have not
departed from your judgments for you
yourself have taught me how sweet are
your words to my taste sweeter than
honey to my mouth through your precepts
I get understanding
therefore I hate every false way
your word is a lamp to my feet and a
light to my path I have sworn and
confirmed that I will keep your
righteous judgments
I am afflicted very much revive me O
Lord according to your word except I
pray the freewill offerings of my mouth
O Lord and teach me your judgments my
life is continually in my hand yet I do
not forget your law the wicked have laid
a snare for me yet I have not strayed
from your precepts your testimonies I
have taken as a heritage forever for
they are the rejoicing of my heart I
have inclined my heart to perform your
statutes forever to the very end
I hate a double-minded but I love your
law you are my hiding place and my
shield I hope in your word depart from
me you evildoers for I will keep the
commandments of my God uphold me
according to your word that I may live
and do not let me be ashamed of my hope
hold me up and I shall be safe and I
shall observe your statutes continually
you reject all those who stray from your
statutes for their deceit is falsehood
you put away all the wicked of the earth
like dross therefore I love your
testimonies my flesh trembles for fear
of you and I am afraid of your judgments
I have done justice and righteousness
do not leave me to my oppressors be
surety for your servant for good do not
let the proud oppress me my eyes fail
from seeking your salvation and you are
righteous word deal with your servant
according to your mercy and teach me
your statutes I am your servant give me
understanding that I may know your
testimonies it is time for you to act Oh
Lord for they have regarded your law as
void therefore I love your Commandments
more than gold yes then find gold
therefore all your precepts concerning
all things I consider to be right I hate
every false way your testimonies are
wonderful therefore my soul keeps them
the entrance of your words gives light
gives understanding to the simple I
opened my mouth and panted for I long
for your Commandments look upon me and
be merciful to me as your custom is
toward those who love your name direct
my steps by your word and let no
iniquity have dominion over me redeem me
from the oppression of man that I may
keep your precepts make your face shine
upon your servant and teach me your
statutes rivers of water run down from
my eyes because men do not keep your law
righteous are you O Lord an upright are
your judgments your testimonies which
you have commanded are righteous and
very faithful my zeal has consumed me
because my enemies have forgotten your
words your word is very pure
therefore your servant loves it I am
small and despised yet I do not forget
your precepts your righteousness is an
everlasting righteousness and your law
is truth trouble and anguish have
overtaken me yet your Commandments are
my delights the righteousness of your
testimonies is everlasting give me
understanding and I shall live I cry out
with my own heart
hear me O Lord I will keep your statutes
I cry out to you save me and I will keep
your testimonies I rise before the
dawning of the morning and cry for help
I hope in your word my eyes are awake
through the night watches that I may
meditate
hear my voice according to your
loving-kindness Oh Lord revive me
according to your justice they draw near
who follow after wickedness they are far
in your law you are near Oh Lord and all
your Commandments are truth concerning
your testimonies I have known of old
that you have founded them forever
consider my affliction and deliver me
for I do not forget your law plead my
cause and redeem me revive me according
to your word salvation is far from the
wicked for they do not seek your
statutes
great are your tender mercies O Lord
revive me according to your judgments
many are my persecutors and my enemies
yet I do not turn from your testimonies
I see the treacherous and then disgusted
because they do not keep your word
consider how I love your presets revive
me O Lord according to your
loving-kindness the entirety of your
word is truth and every one of your
righteous judgments endures forever
princes persecute me without a cause but
my heart stands in awe of your word
I rejoice at your word as one who finds
great treasure
I hate and abhor lying but I love your
law seven times a day I praise you
because of your righteous judgments
great peace have those who love your law
and nothing causes them to stumble lord
I hope for your salvation and I do your
commandments my soul keeps your
testimonies and I love them exceedingly
I keep your precepts and your
testimonies for all my ways are before
you let my cry come before you O Lord
give me understanding according to your
word let my supplication come before you
deliver me according to your word my
lips shall utter praise for you teach me
your statutes my tongue shall speak of
your word for all your Commandments are
righteousness let your hand become my
help for I have chosen your precepts I
long for your salvation O Lord and your
law is my delight let my soul live and
it shall praise you and let your
judgments help me I have gone astray
like a lost sheep seek your servant for
I do not forget your Commandments